Recent advances in deep learning, especially recurrent neural network (RNN) and long short-term memory (LSTM) models [12, 11, 7, 8, 23, 13, 18, 21, 26], provide some useful insights on how to tackle this problem. According to the philosophy underlying the deep learning approach, if we have a reasonable end-to-end model and sufficient data for training it, we are close to solving the problem. The precipitation nowcasting problem satisfies the data requirement because it is easy to collect a huge amount of radar echo data continuously. What is needed is a suitable model for end-to-end learning. The pioneering LSTM encoder-decoder framework proposed in [23] provides a general framework for sequence-to-sequence learning problems by training temporally concatenated LSTMs, one for the input sequence and another for the output sequence. In [18], it is shown that prediction of the next video frame and interpolation of intermediate frames can be done by building an RNN based language model on the visual words obtained by quantizing the image patches. They propose a recurrent convolutional neural network to model the spatial relationships but the model only predicts one frame ahead and does not adopt a convolutional structure for the state-to-state transition. Their work is followed up later in [21] which points out the importance of multi-step prediction in learning useful representations. They build an LSTM encoder-decoder-predictor model which reconstructs the input sequence and predicts the future sequence simultaneously. Although their method can also be used to solve our spatiotemporal sequence forecasting problem, the fully connected LSTM (FC-LSTM) layer adopted by their model does not take spatial correlation into consideration.
In this paper, we propose a novel convolutional LSTM (ConvLSTM) network for precipitation now- casting. We formulate precipitation nowcasting as a spatiotemporal sequence forecasting problem that can be solved under the general sequence-to-sequence learning framework proposed in [23]. In order to model well the spatiotemporal relationships, we extend the idea of FC-LSTM to ConvLSTM which has convolutional structures in both the input-to-state and state-to-state transitions. By stack- ing multiple ConvLSTM layers and forming an encoding-forecasting structure, we can build an end-to-end trainable model for precipitation nowcasting. For evaluation, we have created a new real-life radar echo dataset which, when made publicly available later, can facilitate further research especially on devising machine learning algorithms for the problem. When evaluated on a syn- thetic Moving-MNIST dataset [21] and the radar echo dataset, our ConvLSTM model consistently outperforms both the FC-LSTM and the state-of-the-art operational ROVER algorithm.

